Introduction
============

This booklet concerns individual projects, in particular for the
following courses:

-   CS3821 Full unit project (30 credits)

-   CS3822 Individual project in artificial intelligence (30 credits)

-   IY3821 Full unit project (Information Security) (30 credits)

CS3822 and IY3821 will involve projects relevant to Artificial
Intelligence and Information Security respectively. CS3821 (full unit)
will have projects drawn from a range of topics in Computer Science.

This document contains all the information that you will need from
choosing a project title, right up to writing up, submitting and being
assessed.

***[You should read this guide carefully in order to better understand
the criteria used in assessing a
project!]{style="color: 1,0,0.501961"}***

What is a project
-----------------

An individual project is a piece of individual work done under the
guidance of an academic supervisor. It should be about 300 hours of
work.

Different projects may stress ***theoretical*** aspects of a problem, or
***practical*** (programming/implementation) aspects, or may be
essentially of a ***survey*** type.

-   You will have to submit a project plan, programs that you have
    written, an interim report for the December Review meeting, draft
    and final project reports.

-   You will have to present your project and demonstrate the software
    that you have developed to staff and fellow students.

-   You will have to keep a work diary up to date, attend meetings for
    which you have prepared in advance, and store all of your work on
    the Departmental SVN server or on a private GitHub repository.

Why do a project?
-----------------

The Department **requires** all single honours Computer Science students
to do a full unit individual project. Students on joint honours courses
are also encouraged to do a full unit project, but other course
commitments may mean that a half unit project is more appropriate.

A project is valuable to you because it is your opportunity to
demonstrate your ability to work individually. *Success in your project
will provide evidence of your skills to any future employer and students
often use their project supervisors as referees after completing their
degree*.

Your project may be the most enjoyable part of your undergraduate
studies. You get to choose a topic of personal interest and to study it
in depth.

How do you complete a project
-----------------------------

You will be assigned to a supervisor. Your supervisor takes the role of
your line manager in a company. **They are certainly not there to teach
you the material for your project.** **[The project eventually is your
own, and you have to take individual responsibility for its
success]{.underline}.**

You will have a number of brief meetings with your supervisor and at
these meetings they will give you feedback on the work you have done,
suggest new targets and help with any particular questions that you
have.

You are required to organise your own time, *to keep a work diary*,
deliver reports and programs for assessment and comment, and to update
your SVN or private GitHub repository [^1] regularly.

Use your supervisor to good effect. Hand in regular reports, show them
your code and keep them up to date on your progress towards your final
deliverables. They can help assess your writing style, your coding style
and your understanding of the relevant theory.

The success of your project relies on steady hard work throughout the
time you have available.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------
  Choosing a Project                                                              Date
  Project list available                                                          Friday, 15th March, 2019
  System for submitting preferences becomes available                             Friday, 26th April, 2019
  Deadline for submitting preferences                                             Friday, 3rd May, 2019
  Final allocation published                                                      Friday, 10th May 2019
  **First term**                                                                  **Date**
   Project Plan                                                                   14:00 on Friday, 4th October, 2019
   Interim Programs and Reports                                                   14:00 on Friday, 6th December 2019
   Interim Review Viva                                                            Monday, 9th -- Friday, 13th December, 2019
  **Full Unit Project Submission**                                                **Date**
   *Full Unit* Draft report ready (send by *[email]{.underline}* to supervisor)   Friday, 28th February, 2020
   *Full Unit* Final Programs and Report                                          14:00 on Friday, 27th March, 2020
  **Final Project Assessment**                                                    **Date**
   Project Demo Days                                                              Monday, 27th April, 2020
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------

Choosing a project and finding a supervisor
===========================================

Projects are allocated towards the end of the previous academic year.
This allows you time to do some background research and begin a project
plan over the summer vacation.

The list of available projects (excluding those from Information
Security) topics is available on the [Full Unit Topic List Web
Site](http://projects.cs.rhul.ac.uk/List.php?PROJECT_TYPE=Full) from
Friday, 15th March, 2019. The list for Information Security students is
available at [Information Security Topic List Web
Site](http://projects.cs.rhul.ac.uk/List.php?PROJECT_TYPE=ISG).

On Friday, 26th April, 2019 a [Full Unit Ballot Web
Site](http://projects.cs.rhul.ac.uk/Chooser.php?PROJECT_TYPE=Full) is
made available.

If you intend to do a project you must submit your preferences using the
ballot web site. On this site you drag five project choices to a
submission area, choose your name from a drop down list and press the
Submit button. You then see a report of the projects you have chosen.
*You should make sure that the choices you submit are ordered according
to how much you like them, with your favourite project topic at the top
of the list.*

You can submit your choices any number of times, in case you change your
mind, until the ballot deadline on Friday, 3rd May, 2019.

The project topics
------------------

As each supervisor has a limited capacity for project students, and some
supervisors will only allow one student to do any particular project
topic, it is imperative that you choose as wide a range of projects as
possible on the ballot web site.

Some projects have *prerequisites* attached. Typically, this means that
you must be registered for certain third year courses, or have certain
key skills. Make sure that you pick projects that you will be able to
do.

Designing your own project title
--------------------------------

Students are usually *not* allowed to attempt non-standard projects
(projects that are not on the departmental list). This is to ensure that
all projects have a sufficient academic content, and that they are not
too ambitious.

If you wish to attempt a project that is not on the departmental list
then you must find a supervisor willing to take on that project and
submit the project description, including all of the sections that you
see in standard topics list, to the projects committee. During the
allocation process the projects committee will decide whether you are
able to do the project that you have devised with the supervisor you
have chosen.

In any event it is *essential* that you choose five topics from the
departmental list using the project ballot web site.

Your supervisor
---------------

When all project preferences have been collected an optimising computer
algorithm allocates students to appropriate supervisors, taking student
preferences and staff workloads into account. You will be notified of
your allocation by email and on the departmental web site.

**You must arrange a first meeting with your supervisor before the end
of the summer term. This is entirely your responsibility.**

*The project title allocated to you automatically by the system is not
final. At your first meeting with your supervisor you might opt for a
project better suited to your interests and skills.* This must be a
topic from the standard list that your supervisor is willing to
supervise.

Organisation of the project
===========================

This section describes the week by week requirements and processes
involved with an individual project.

Initial Meeting and Project Plan
--------------------------------

After the project allocation is published and before the end of the
summer term it is essential that you arrange an initial project meeting
with your supervisor. At this meeting you should discuss the project
topic and decide what background reading might be helpful over the
summer.

You must also discuss the structure of your project. In what order you
will be learning key skills and basic theory. You will also decide, in
principle, what the final project will look like.

Following this meeting, over the summer, you will prepare a project
plan:

-   Briefly describe the project reports that you will be writing in the
    first term. Such reports will form the basis of your final project
    report. Typically you will write reports on key background concepts,
    mathematical theory, algorithms, technologies and relevant
    literature.

-   Briefly describe "proof of concept" programs that you will write in
    the first term. These programs "prove" that you can code all of the
    algorithms required, that you can make an appropriate user
    interface, and that you can use key technologies and libraries
    effectively.

-   Write a short "abstract\" indicating why you are doing the project
    and what you expect the final project to achieve.

-   Write a timeline that includes starting and delivery dates for all
    of the first term reports and programs. It should also include
    important milestones, with dates, for the second term.

-   List the material that you read while preparing your plan,
    describing its relevance and key content. This will typically
    include a main book, some web pages and perhaps some research or
    review papers.

-   Write a short section describing the key risks (things that might go
    wrong) associated with your project. Each risk should have some
    mitigation: what you will do in order to make sure that the risk is
    not realised, or to contain the impact of the risk if it is
    realised.

Your project plan must be submitted by 14:00 on Friday, 4th October,
2019. It will be assessed by your project supervisor using the
appropriate criteria (See
Section [12.2](#sec:assess-plan){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:assess-plan"}), and will count 5% towards your final
project grade.

Your supervisor will decide whether the schedule of reports and
programs, together with the overall project milestones, is a sufficient
and effective plan for the project. They will also help you to decide
how best to modify and implement the plan. You will receive written
comments from your supervisor to help you to improve your project plan.

Project meetings
----------------

During the first (autumn) term in which you are working on your project
you are entitled to a twenty minute meeting with your supervisor in the
first teaching week, and then a meeting once every two weeks. You should
contact your supervisor as early as possible during this term to arrange
the time for these meetings.

During your *first project meeting* you should discuss your project plan
to agree deliverables and milestones. You should decide on a schedule of
work for the first two weeks so that you can begin to work on your
project as soon as possible.

In the second term you will have a meeting with your supervisor in the
first two weeks of term, and then three further meetings. The first of
these second term meetings will be to review progress made so far, the
outcome of the December review, and to plan the work for the term. You
should arrange to meet again once in the middle of term to discuss any
issues that have arisen. You should then meet twice more towards the end
of the term to discuss your draft report, especially the professional
issues section.

These meetings are the best way for both you and your supervisor to
monitor your progress.

There will not be time in your project meetings for supervisors to cover
much new material. So it is important that you arrive prepared with
questions and problems for discussion. You can ask your supervisor to
read and review your work before the project meeting. *Such work must be
made sent to the supervisor for consideration at least two working days
before the meeting.*

It is vital that both you and your supervisor keep records at *all*
project meetings. In particular you *must* record any deadlines given to
you and any deliverables required of you. You are be required to make a
record of all project meetings in your project diary.

**Bring a notebook to all meetings.**

Project diary
-------------

You are required to keep a diary or workbook log. This will be
invaluable when you write your final report as it will help you to
remember problems that you found and dead ends that you investigated.

**Use the notebook that you bring along to project meetings.**

Saving to a file repository
---------------------------

We also require you to keep all reports, programs, notes etc. on your
departmental SVN repository or in a private GitHub repository. This will
mean that all of your work is backed up regularly and available to you
and your supervisor from home or at the Department. *Use a sensible
structure as you will have lots of files.*

You will submit all work using the departmental anonymous submission
system. For these submissions, your SVN or GitHub repository will also
be very helpful. You can checkout a working copy, build appropriate
executables etc., and then submit the resulting directory using the
departmental anonymous marking system.

Supervisor's responsibilities
-----------------------------

It is your supervisor's responsibility to attend each of the project
meetings, or to re-organise the meetings if this is not possible.

Your supervisor will keep an attendance register of your meetings, and
of your professional conduct during your project. This, together with an
assessment of your project diary, will count 5% towards your final
assessment.

Your supervisor will also discuss relevant professional issues during
your meetings in order to help you write the Professional Issues section
of your report (See
Section [6](#sec:professionalIssues){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:professionalIssues"}).

The supervisor is there to monitor and advise. They are not there to
teach. There will not be time in your project meetings for supervisors
to teach new material. Supervisors will give you references and be
willing to discuss problems *after you have studied* new material.

Interim Review
==============

1.  Towards the end of the first term, (Monday, 9th -- Friday, 13th
    December, 2019), a review will be conducted to determine your
    progress on the project to date.

2.  The review presentation will be assessed by a member of the projects
    committee (or possibly other staff member, but not your supervisor).
    You will give a ten minute presentation about your project which
    will be assessed using the appropriate criteria (See
    Section [12.3](#sec:assess-review){reference-type="ref"
    reference="sec:assess-review"}).

3.  The submitted material, reports and programs, will be assessed by
    your supervisor and a second marker using the appropriate criteria
    (See Section [12.3](#sec:assess-review){reference-type="ref"
    reference="sec:assess-review"}).

4.  Feedback on your performance will be returned to you in a timely
    fashion.

See Section [12.3](#sec:assess-review){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:assess-review"} for a detailed description of how your
progress will be assessed at the Interim review.

Preparing for the Interim Review
--------------------------------

Not only will we assess your presentation, but we will also look at
programs and reports that you have written.

The programs that you write in the first term are normally "proof of
concept" type programs. You will have seen new algorithms, new hardware,
new library interfaces or novel and complex data structures. It is best
to experiment with these new concepts by coding them in small working
programs. It is a good rule that we do not truly understand an algorithm
until we have successfully made it work in a program. These initial
programs make the coding of the final project deliverables much more
straightforward. Many of the hard issues have already been solved.

New material that you have learnt and programs that you have produced
will be assessed under the heading "Technical Achievements\" and will
count 10% towards your final project grade.

The reports that you write in the first term are to help you write your
final project report. They will cover theoretical and practical aspects
of your project work. You must combine them into a single document for
submission. This report will count 10% towards your final project grade.
The total word count should be about 5,000 words.

These interim reports will form the basis of your final project report.

The project reports
===================

Your **final project report** is your most important deliverable,
counting 30% towards your final project mark. A final project report is
approximately 15,000 words and must include a word count. *It is
acceptable to have other material in appendixes.*

Your **interim report** for the Interim Review meeting will count 10% .
It should be submitted as a single combined document. The total word
count should be about 5,000 words. The interim report should summarise
the work you have done so far, with sections on the theory you have
learnt and the code that you have written.

Writing the final report
------------------------

You should aim to agree on the outline of your report with your
supervisor as early as possible. This will allow you to **write up your
work as you go along**. An example of a typical list of headings for a
project report is attached. We have also made available on Moodle a
template final report both in Word and in LaTeX format. All reports must
be submitted *as a single file*, in Portable Document Format (pdf).

As your project progresses keep together all the work you do (in your
SVN or private GitHub repository), including early incorrect ideas and
program fragments. These will all be essential in explaining the
development of your work. Also remember to keep your project work diary
up to date with any work that you do for your report.

Your supervisor **must** see a complete draft of your report by Friday,
28th February, 2020. *This can be submitted by email as a Portable
Document Format (pdf) file.* Their feedback can help improve the final
version.

What **must** your final report contain
---------------------------------------

1.  A section **motivating** the project and giving the original
    **project aims**.

    This section must include a description of how you think that the
    work involved in your project will help in your future career.

2.  A short section on **professional issues** (See
    Section [6](#sec:professionalIssues){reference-type="ref"
    reference="sec:professionalIssues"}) that raised concern during the
    year, particularly with respect to doing your project or the
    material contained in your project.

3.  Some sort of **self-evaluation** in the assessment section: How did
    the project go? Where next? What did you do right/wrong? What have
    you learnt about doing a project?

4.  A description of **how to run any software** that you have
    submitted, including any environmental requirements (Java version
    number, IOS version etc.,)

5.  A **bibliography** of works referred to in the text, or that have
    been read in order to understand the project.

6.  A **theory section**. This might include a **literature survey**,
    sections on **specific theory**, or even an **interesting
    discussion** on what you have achieved in a more global context.

7.  Sections describing the **software engineering method** that you
    used. If your project is based on a **software product** then this
    may even be most of your report.

8.  Lastly there are some added extras you might want to include.
    Perhaps parts of a **program listing**. Perhaps some **sample
    output** or **experimental results**. Often you will include a
    **user manual** (though complete installation and operating
    instructions are mandatory). These extra documents may be put into
    an appropriate appendix so as not to count towards the word limit.

    *To avoid the accusation of plagiarism (See
    Section [8](#sec:plagiarism){reference-type="ref"
    reference="sec:plagiarism"}) you must cite anything that you quote
    from (or use images/diagrams or even précis/reword) in the text.*

Professional Issues in your final project report {#sec:professionalIssues}
================================================

Ethical behaviour is concerned with what is good or bad, with moral duty
and obligation and as such deals with opinions and beliefs.

Professionalism in computing is concerned with the societal impact of
computer technology and the creation and understanding of policies for
the ethical use of such technologies.

Professional bodies such as the [British Computer
Society](http://www.bcs.org/category/6030) (BCS) and the [Association
for Computing Machinery](http://www.acm.org/about/code-of-ethics) (ACM)
help ensure professionalism and ethical behaviour by providing standards
and a code of individual conduct: guaranteeing certain levels of
competence, integrity and a commitment to the interests of all end-users
and other stakeholders.

> I am amazed when I meet computer professionals in business and
> industry or even computer science teachers in colleges and
> universities who fail to recognise that their profession has social
> and ethical consequences *Terrell Ward Bynum (2003*)

After completing a Royal Holloway Computer Science degree we expect that
you will be ready to be ethical computing professionals. To this end we
include material on professional issues in our undergraduate modules.

The individual project is no exception. By completing an individual
project, as well as the theory and practise essential to your chosen
topic, you will have acquired skills in time management, prioritisation
and both oral and written presentation.

Certainly you will have encountered some professional issues: correct
citation, licensing, accessibility etc.,

*We require that you complete a short section on professional issues in
your final report.*

What is required {#what-is-required .unnumbered}
================

The section in your project report must be clearly indicated. It can
either be part of the general flow of the report or it can be an
appendix. It must be approximately 1,000 words.

You must choose a topic that is relevant to your project (see the
following section for examples). Then you could:

-   describe an example from the public domain of what can happen when
    professional issues are not properly addressed; or

-   write about how a particular issue has been of concern to you in
    your project; or

-   describe some professional issue that has arisen during your project
    and discuss its ethical or practical importance.

*This section must be reflective and thoughtful and is a requirement for
a successful project submission.* You **must** include a completed
professional issues section in the draft report given to your
supervisor.

Possible Topics {#possible-topics .unnumbered}
===============

Professional Issues occur wherever computing meets society. As such they
are always concerned with how people interact with computers and
software. This is a very wide area and you may well choose a topic not
listed below but these are given as guidelines to help you.

-   Usability - accessibility, replacing humans, artificial
    intelligence.

-   Plagiarism - correct citation, using code with acknowledgement.

-   Licensing - shareware, open source, copyright, patenting, reverse
    engineering.

-   Safety - reliability, economic impact, trust, provided "as is\"
    clauses.

-   Privacy - web privacy, legal issues, data usage.

-   Monopoly - proprietary formats, tie-ins, cartels, DRM, Google,
    Amazon, Microsoft, Apple.

-   Management - appropriate costing of time and resources at the start
    of a project. Revision during project. Consultation with
    stakeholders.

Programs and other technical material
=====================================

As well as the project reports, you must submit any programs that you
have written, both for the Interim review and with your final report.
These must be properly developed and documented and should be well
written.

The programs that you write in the first term will be submitted at the
same time as the interim report, by 14:00 on Friday, 6th December 2019.
Your technical achievement in the first term will count 10% towards your
final project.

When you submit your final report you must submit finished programs for
assessment. These will count 30% towards your final project.

You should discuss with your supervisor what documentation is required
in addition to your final report. For example:

-   Long or complicated test output (referred to in the report).

-   Examples showing the use of the project.

-   Detailed instructions for executing submitted programs.

-   Copies of papers and other reference material used for the project.

It is usual to include such material in the appendix to the final
report.

Plagiarism and acknowledgement of sources {#sec:plagiarism}
=========================================

**Plagiarism** (the unacknowledged use of other people's work) is a very
serious offence and will be severely penalised. If you are in any doubt
about what needs to be referenced and acknowledged, ask your supervisor
for advice.

It is in the nature of a project that much of the material will not be
original. You will have researched around your subject and discovered
many sources of information. It is vital that any quote made from any
source (including the web) should be properly acknowledged, both where
it is used *within the report text*, and at the end of the report in the
bibliography. Under no circumstances should copyrighted material be
included in a project report without the proper permissions having been
obtained, and any such inclusion should be agreed with your supervisor.

Bibliography
------------

All sources of information must be listed in your bibliography. This
includes books, articles, research papers, course notes and Internet
sites. Quotations must be acknowledged, for example:

*Henry Smith \[1\] states that "The problem of wild animals on campus
can only be solved by the introduction of even wilder animals which will
eat them." but the results of this project seem to contradict him.*

In this case, the citation \[1\] would refer to a bibliography entry
such as

\[1\]

:   Smith, H. *Modern University Life*. Wombat Press, 1997.

If you express someone else's idea in your own words, then you must also
acknowledge their original expression of the idea. For example:

*Smith \[1\] believes that an infestation of wild animals in a
university can only be cured by introducing suitable predators. However,
the obviously recursive nature of his proposal led me to consider more
feasible alternatives.*

Acknowledging Borrowed/Modified Examples or Theory
--------------------------------------------------

If you use examples from a lecture course or a book to illustrate your
background theory, then you must acknowledge the original source.
Similarly if you follow a book or lecture notes when presenting
background theory, for example:

*The following sequence of definitions is based on \[1\], with
simplifications due to the fact that we are only considering *finite*
widgets.*

Other People's Code
-------------------

There is no penalty for using other people's code in you project, **as
long as you make it clear that this is code that you have not written**.
However, it is expected that most of the code submitted with your
project will be your own.

If any submitted program includes any pieces of code which you did not
write yourself, then you must identify this code by commenting it, and
say where the code came from. For example, if you copy an implementation
of a particular algorithm from a book, you must make it clear that you
did not write those lines of code. Even if you modify someone else's
code to use in your program you must make it clear that you began with
someone else's code.

You should cite the original program code in your report, as well as
clearly marking it with the original author's name in your own source
code.

Other people's code must come from publicly available, free for
educational use, sources. It must not be commissioned, nor can it be the
work of any colleague at RHUL.

Submitting your work {#sec:whatToSubmit}
====================

This section tells you how to produce and submit your work. The
procedure for applying for a submission deadline extensions are
described in
Section [\[sec:extensions\]](#sec:extensions){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:extensions"}. Extensions are normally only given for
medical reasons.

**Please note that there is no paper submission of any kind, except for
the feedback form and the draft report, which are not graded.** All
graded submissions must be made using the departmental anonymous
submission mechanism.

-   **Use the departmental (anonymous---though for the project the
    submissions are not anonymous) submission mechanism to submit your
    work.**

-   Interim and Final reports, and your project plan. Each must be
    delivered *as a single file* in Portable Document Format (pdf) as
    described in Section [9.2](#sec:submitReports){reference-type="ref"
    reference="sec:submitReports"}.

-   Programs and supporting material. See
    Section [9.3](#sec:submitPrograms){reference-type="ref"
    reference="sec:submitPrograms"} for a description of what is
    required.

-   **Please use a sensible subdirectory structure for your anonymous
    submission directory.** Your report must clearly document the
    structure of your submission directory.

-   **You must also complete a feedback form. These will be collected at
    the demonstration sessions.** (See
    Section [10](#sec:feedback){reference-type="ref"
    reference="sec:feedback"}).

    ==========

    Here are the precise submission instructions:

    You will submit your work electronically by means of the submission
    script which can be found on linux.cim.

    You may resubmit your script any number of times, though only the
    last submission will be kept. The submission will occur on teaching
    and the protocol is

    submitCoursework    $<<$your directory$>>$

    For example, assuming the directory with my solutions is assignment1
    then I would submit by typing in the following command from
    linux.cim in the parent directory of assignment1:

    \$ submitCoursework assignment1

    and then follow the instructions accordingly. The files you submit
    cannot be overwritten by anyone else, and they cannot be read by any
    other student. You can, however, overwrite your submission as often
    as you like, by resubmitting, though only the last version submitted
    will be kept. Submission after the deadline will be accepted but it
    will automatically be recorded as being late and is subject to
    College Regulations on late submissions.

Submitting your draft report
----------------------------

In order to produce and submit the draft report, you need to do the
following.

-   Prepare the text with a word processor (for example Microsoft Word)
    or a document preparation system (for example, LaTeX), using font
    size no smaller than 10pt and standard or double line spacing. It is
    safest to use the project templates available on Moodle.

-   Your submitted draft report must be called `USERNAME.draft.pdf`

-   Make sure that the front cover of your draft report contains the
    following information:

    -   your name

    -   your supervisor's name

    -   the project title

    -   the year

    -   the words "Full unit project"

    -   the course code (eg "CS3822 project in artificial
        intelligence\")

    Your name and the year must also appear at the very top of the
    cover.

**Your draft report can be printed and delivered directly to your
supervisor (not the office), or you can email the file as an attachment
to your supervisor.**

Submitting the plan and reports {#sec:submitReports}
-------------------------------

In order to produce and submit the interim report, the final project
report and the project plan you need to do the following.

-   Prepare the text with a word processor (for example Microsoft Word)
    or a document preparation system (for example, LaTeX), using font
    size no smaller than 10pt and standard or double line spacing. It is
    safest to use the project templates available on Moodle.

-   Your submitted plan must be called `USERNAME-plan.pdf`, your interim
    report must be called `USERNAME.interim.pdf` and your final report
    must be called `USERNAME.final.pdf`

-   Make sure that the front cover of your report contains the following
    information:

    -   your name

    -   your supervisor's name

    -   the project title

    -   the year

    -   the words "Full unit project"

    Your name and the year must also appear at the very top of the
    cover.

Submitting your programs {#sec:submitPrograms}
------------------------

You must make sure that it is possible for your project markers to run
any programs which you have produced as part of your project.

For some submissions it has been hard in the past for graders to run
students' code. Therefore, please make sure that you supply careful
instructions for executing your code. In particular you *must indicate
which packages might need to be installed* to make your code run, and
provide detailed and correct instructions.

To assist in running and assessing your code you **must** provide
screenshots in your report and *should*, where appropriate, include
videos of the running software with your submission. Put any such videos
on YouTube and provide links.

In particular, you must include in your submission:

-   A `README.txt` file describing the directory structure of your
    submitted directory,

-   A subdirectory *Documents* containing **electronic copies of
    submitted documents, saved in Portable Document Format (pdf)**,

-   Source files for all programs,

-   Any Makefiles, Ant files, XML etc.,

-   Results files (these can also be added as an appendix of your final
    report),

-   Executable programs (if appropriate),

-   A text file of instructions for Interim Review programs (this may be
    included in the program documentation),

-   A user manual (in pdf) for final programs (this may be an appendix
    of your final report),

-   An installation manual (in pdf) for final programs (this may be an
    appendix of your final report),

-   Screenshots of your program run,

-   Where appropriate, include videos of the running software. Put any
    such videos on YouTube and provide links.

Feedback, Monitoring and Complaints {#sec:feedback}
===================================

When you attend your final project demonstration, you will be required
to return a completed project feedback form. Blank forms will be
available at the demonstrations but it will save you time if you
complete a form (available from the project Moodle site) ahead of time
and bring it along to your project demonstration. The feedback will be
used by the projects committee to inform future procedures and
practices.

Your supervisor will monitor your performance during the project. This
will count 5% towards the total project assessment.

Complaints {#complaints .unnumbered}
----------

1.  Students may complain about their supervisor only on grounds of
    insufficient monitoring, or inappropriate demands.

2.  In the first instance a student should bring complaints to their
    supervisor.

3.  If, after bringing a complaint to the supervisor, the student still
    has a grievance then they should bring their complaint to a member
    of the projects committee.

4.  If the committee feels that a complaint is justified, and the
    student wishes, the projects committee will make representations to
    the supervisor.

5.  If the committee feels that a complaint is justified then they will
    minute this and the grievance will be considered when assessing the
    project.

Marking Procedures and Extensions
=================================

Each project will be assessed by the *supervisor*, *a second marker* and
*a member of the projects committee*. The assessments are used to judge
the quality of the three marked components to a project: the project
plan (See Section [12.2](#sec:assess-plan){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:assess-plan"}), the first term assessment (See
Section [12.3](#sec:assess-review){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:assess-review"}) and the final assessment (See
Section [12.4](#sec:assess-final){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:assess-final"}).

Markers will mark according to the marking criteria supplied and will
justify marks and provide appropriate student feedback.

1.  The project plan will be graded by the project supervisor.

2.  The Interim review presentation will be graded by a member of the
    projects committee (or other staff member, but not your supervisor).

3.  The student's project performance mark will be determined by the
    project supervisor.

4.  The project demonstration will be assessed by the second marker.

5.  Project reports and programs (interim and final) will be marked
    independently by the project supervisor and the second marker.

Mark reconciliation {#mark-reconciliation .unnumbered}
-------------------

In the event of a small discrepancy between the independent marks for a
report or program (less than 10%) the final mark will be the average of
the two marks. Otherwise the following process will be followed:

1.  The two markers will try to arrive at an agreed mark. The discussion
    towards agreeing a mark will be recorded.

2.  In the event that agreement is not possible, a third independent
    marker will be assigned, and the projects committee will seek
    agreement amongst all markers as to the final outcome.

3.  If no agreement is possible then the external examiner will be asked
    to adjudicate a final mark.

Extensions {#sec:extensions .unnumbered}
----------

**Extensions for projects will normally only be given for medical
reasons.**

No marking penalty will apply to a project submitted by a student on
time or within the limits of an agreed extension. An extension can only
be granted using the standard College procedures. Please make your
supervisor aware of your application for an extension, and the outcome
of the application

*An email confirming your extension must be emailed to your supervisor.*

**If you hand in any project deliverable late (allowing for any agreed
extension) then the standard marking penalty will be applied.**

Guidelines for Assessment
=========================

This section is concerned with the assessment of a project.

Aims {#aims .unnumbered}
----

The aim of the individual project is to give students the opportunity to
complete a substantial piece of work. This involves organising their own
time, deadlines and deliverables, and delivering a completed piece of
work in a professional manner.

Objectives {#objectives .unnumbered}
----------

The following objectives will be achieved by completing a individual
project.

The student will be able to:

-   work independently on a significant piece of work, organising
    deadlines and deliverables;

-   learn new skills and theory from diverse information sources;

-   make technical decisions after consideration of appropriate evidence
    and act on those decisions;

-   present and discuss a technical subject;

-   compose and complete a technical report;

-   work steadily under guidance for the duration of a project;

-   understand what is required of a computing professional.

Assessment Criteria
-------------------

Whilst there are several different assessments made there are only three
marked components to an individual project: the project plan (See
Section [12.2](#sec:assess-plan){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:assess-plan"}), the interim assessment (See
Section [12.3](#sec:assess-review){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:assess-review"}) and the final assessment (See
Section [12.4](#sec:assess-final){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:assess-final"}).

We use a variety of assessment methods in order to be assured that each
learning objective is properly assessed. For example the demonstration
is where we assess your ability to describe and discuss the final
deliverables of your project and any technical achievements that you
have made.

Ultimately, the final mark of the project will be determined by the
external examiners to ensure that project marks are commensurate with
individual projects across the university sector. Thus, the following
criteria are guidelines for choosing the final classification of a
project and have been constructed in consultation with our external
examiners.

The Project Plan: 5%  {#sec:assess-plan}
---------------------

The project plan must be submitted by 14:00 on Friday, 4th October,
2019.

The Project plan will count 5% towards the final grade for the project.
The grade grid describes how we grade the project plan.

The plan should describe the following:

-   abstract: an overview of the aims and objectives for the project;

-   first and second term milestones, both reports and programs;

-   risks and mitigations;

-   bibliography: the sources that helped you decide on your plan;

-   planning and time-scales.

  -- ------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------
      Marks  Description                                                                                                                                                  Percentage
             Copied from the project list                                                                                                                                  $<$ 40%
             Describes and motivates the final project                                                                                                                     40--69%
             Describes and motivates the final project. Gives well thought out individual project goals                                                                    70--100%
             Milestones missing, poorly thought through or just copied from project list                                                                                   $<$ 40%
             Milestones are adequate or good, each with dates but some have insufficient motivation                                                                        40--69%
             Good list of well explained milestones                                                                                                                        70--100%
             Bibliography missing, unusable or just includes web pages                                                                                                     $<$ 40%
             Clear use of more than one source. Not just web sites. Nice evidence of good research.                                                                         40-69%
             Bibliography items are very good. Each has a short relevant discussion of its value to the project                                                            70--100%
             General Risks just given such as "may get behind\"                                                                                                            $<$ 40%
             Risks associated with deliverables and show clear thought. Ideally each (or some) risks are provided with mitigations that seem reasonable                    40--69%
             A good case is made for understanding how the project might fail to proceed and what should be done about it. Some risks have likelihoods and importance.     70--100%
  -- ------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------

**You will receive written feedback on your plan from your supervisor.**

The Interim Review : 25%  {#sec:assess-review}
-------------------------

All reports that you wish to be considered for your interim review must
be submitted by 14:00 on Friday, 6th December 2019. The reports should
be submitted in an appropriate folder.

Your report must clearly document the structure of your submission
directory, possibly in a short appendix.

The Interim Review will count 25% towards your final grade for the
project. There will be three components adding up to this weight. The
presentation will count 5% and will be graded by a member of the
projects committee (or other staff member). The review reports will
count 10% and be graded by your supervisor and an independent second
marker. The proof of concept programs and other technical achievements
will count 10% and be graded by your supervisor and an independent
second marker.

You will normally have about 5,000 words in well written reports and at
least 300 lines of effective working code submitted submitted prior to
the Interim Review. This should be enough to demonstrate your technical
achievements.

The grade grids following describe the score achieved for each level of
attainment.

### Interim Review: Reports : 10% 

These reports will count 10% towards the final grade for the project and
be submitted by 14:00 on Friday, 6th December 2019.

The (first term) written reports will be expected to contain the
following contents:

-   aims, objectives and literature survey;

-   planning and time-scale;

-   summary of completed work;

-   bibliography and citations;

-   some form of diary.

The total word count should be about 5,000 words.

  -- ------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------
      Marks  Description                                                                                                                          Percentage
             Poor writing or structure or too little material                                                                                      $<$ 40%
             Well structured and good use of English                                                                                               40--69%
             Organised and collated towards a final project report                                                                                 70--100%
             Very little theory or poor evidence of understanding                                                                                  $<$ 40%
             Evidence of understanding of background theory, ideally demonstrated by explanation of appropriate proof of concept programs          40--69%
             Clear evidence of independent thought using background theory imaginatively                                                           70--100%
             No diary or just a list of achievements                                                                                               $<$ 40%
             Diary of achievements well related to original plan                                                                                   40--69%
             Reflective diary showing strong evidence of analysis of process                                                                       70--100%
             No bibliography and poor references to the literature                                                                                 $<$ 40%
             Interesting and appropriate bibliography or many appropriate well understood references                                               40--69%
             Excellent evidence of background reading and appropriate use of references in the report                                              70--100%
             Poor evidence of use of SE tools and methodology                                                                                      $<$ 40%
             Clear evidence of an engineering approach to developing software, including appropriate use of TDD and UML                            40--69%
             Excellent SE. Clear evidence of all appropriate processes including the use of a revision control system and a good test strategy     70--100%
  -- ------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------

**You will receive written feedback on your first term reports from your
supervisor.**

### Interim Review: Programs and Technical Achievement : 10% 

The technical achievement grade for your first term work will consider:

-   demonstration of a practical understanding of
    material/theory/algorithms at an appropriate level;

-   a good description of the programs written and planned;

-   demonstrating good programming practice;

-   that programs written are clearly useful for completing the final
    project deliverable;

-   that programs written work as designed and are simple to execute.

  -------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------
  Level          Description                                                                                                                                                                                                 Value
  *Inadequate*   Only poor quality code or none submitted. No new programming or algorithmic concepts/algorithms/data structures/use of libraries beyond second year level.                                                  Fewer than 25 marks
  *Poor*         Some working code without good documentation or poorly written. Weak evidence of engaging with the programming challenges of the project.                                                                   26-39 marks
  *Basic*        Working code, well written or adequately documented. Clear sense of purpose in programs.                                                                                                                    40-59 marks
  *Good*         As *Basic*. Interesting or complex algorithms coded, or perhaps the use of complex library. Clear evidence of a design process.                                                                             60-69 marks
  *Very Good*    As *Good* but with clear focus on covering a wide range of topics necessary to complete the final programs. Also final program initial design begun.                                                        70-85 marks
  *Excellent*    As *Very Good* but also completing advanced targets from the project specification or other significant extensions outside of the original project specification. A nearly complete good quality project.   More than 85 marks
  -------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------

**You will receive written feedback on your technical achievement from
your supervisor.**

### Interim Review: Viva: 5% 

Marks awarded by a member of the project committee for the ability of
the student to defend their work.

The purpose of the project presentation is to explore whether the
student can:

-   explain the aims and objectives clearly;

-   explain the background/relevance/importance of the project and set
    it in the wider context;

-   give a broad description of the project - i.e. how parts of the
    project fit together to form a coherent whole;

-   briefly explain the theory underpinning the individual parts of the
    project (for example how algorithms work or which architectural
    options existed including their benefits/ drawbacks);

-   communicate well, supporting their work with a clear simple
    presentation that keeps to the allowed time.

-   defend and justify decisions made during the project;

  -------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------
  Level          Description                                                                                                                                                                          Value
  *Inadequate*   Does not understand the aims of the project let alone anything done towards achieving them.                                                                                          Fewer than 25 marks
  *Poor*         Does not understand basic theories relating to any part of the project and cannot defend any of it.                                                                                  26-39 marks
  *Basic*        Understood much of what they have done. May be very hesitant on background theory.                                                                                                   40-59 marks
  *Good*         As *Basic*. Could not necessarily defend all decisions and maybe struggled if the conversation went beyond the scope of the minimum requirements for the project.                    60-69 marks
  *Very Good*    As *Good*. The student clearly understood and defended nearly all aspects of the project and its background. Clear evidence of commitment to excellent performance on the project.   70-85 marks
  *Excellent*    As *Very Good*. The student clearly knew more than experts in the department about (some aspects of) the project and its context.                                                    More than 85 marks
  -------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------

Normally, more than 90% of students score between Basic and Good and
fewer than 5% of students achieve an Excellent mark.

**You will receive written feedback on your presentation from your
supervisor.**

The Final project submission : 70%  {#sec:assess-final}
-----------------------------------

See Section [9](#sec:whatToSubmit){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:whatToSubmit"} for more information on submission of your
final project material.

**Final project submission will not be marked unless an electronic copy
is correctly submitted, including a professional issues section (See
Section [6](#sec:professionalIssues){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:professionalIssues"}).**

The assessments made after final project submission will count 70%
toward the total grade for the project.

### Final Project Submission: The Report: 30% 

The marks for the final report will be be divided as follows:

-   Rationale (10%): Aims, objectives and a good introduction describing
    the structure of the report.

-   Literature Review and Background Reading (15%): Description and
    critical analysis of relevant background material from books,
    research papers or the web. Analysis of existing systems that solve
    similar tasks;

-   Contents and Knowledge (20%): Description of relevant theory -
    whether mathematical, algorithmic, hardware or software oriented.
    Also adequate chapters on development and Software Engineering;

-   Critical analysis and Discussion (10%): A discussion of actual
    project achievements and how successful the project was. Clear
    evidence of reflection on the project process, its difficulties,
    successes and future enhancements. Any conclusions or results
    analysed or discussed appropriately;

-   Technical Decision Making (10%): Are important (technical) decisions
    well made and argued? This includes good design decisions, choice or
    development of algorithms, scope of the project.

-   Structure and Presentation (20%): Good use of English. Clear and
    appropriate report structure. Nice use of figures;

-   Bibliography and Citations (5%): Clear and appropriate bibliography
    with good citations. Must be clear and well formatted. See
    Section [8](#sec:plagiarism){reference-type="ref"
    reference="sec:plagiarism"};

-   Professional issues (10%): Should be a topic relevant to the project
    undertaken. See
    Section [6](#sec:professionalIssues){reference-type="ref"
    reference="sec:professionalIssues"}.

A full marking grid is given on the next page.

A final project report is approximately 15,000 words and must include a
word count. *It is acceptable to have other material in appendixes.*

The section on professional issues should be about 1,000 words.

+:--------+:--------+:--------+:--------+:--------+:--------+:--------+
|         | Marks   |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Rationa | 0-10    | Problem | Margina | Good    | Clear   | Clear   |
| le      |         | stateme | l       | relevan | Motivat | stateme |
|         |         | nt      | focus.  | t       | ion     | nt      |
|         |         | or      | Relevan | introdu | and     | of      |
|         |         | Introdu | ce      | ction.  | well-wr | problem |
|         |         | ction   | of      | Some    | itten   | and     |
|         |         | or      | topic   | shortco | focusse | associa |
|         |         | Motivat | explain | mings   | d       | ted     |
|         |         | ion     | ed;     | in      | introdu | objecti |
|         |         | missing | problem | clarity | ction   | ves.    |
|         |         | or      | stateme | of      | that    |         |
|         |         | severel | nt      | purpose | explain | Persuas |
|         |         | y       | poorly  | and     | s       | ive     |
|         |         | underde | develop | associa | the     | and     |
|         |         | veloped | ed;     | ted     | structu | compreh |
|         |         | .       |         | objecti | re      | ensive  |
|         |         |         |         | ves.    | of the  | rationa |
|         |         | Absence |         |         | report  | le.     |
|         |         | of      |         |         | and the |         |
|         |         | focus.  |         |         | tasks   | Some    |
|         |         | Tasks   |         |         | to be   | tasks   |
|         |         | unclear |         |         | done.   | clearly |
|         |         | or      |         |         |         | above   |
|         |         | confuse |         |         |         | second  |
|         |         | d.      |         |         |         | year    |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | level.  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Literat | 0-15    | No      | Little  | Fair    | Sound   | Full    |
| ure     |         | attempt | attempt | knowled | knowled | critica |
| Review  |         | at      | at      | ge.     | ge      | l       |
| and     |         | critica | critica | Some    | of      | review  |
| Backgro |         | l       | l       | gaps    | backgro | of      |
| und     |         | comment | comment | and     | und     | literat |
| Reading |         | ;       | .       | omissio | area.   | ure     |
|         |         | Serious | Large   | ns.     | Some    | relevan |
|         |         | gaps    | gaps    | Some    | critica | t       |
|         |         | and     | and     | attempt | l       | to      |
|         |         | omissio | omissio | at      | review. | study.  |
|         |         | ns      | ns.     | critica | Good    | Compreh |
|         |         | in      |         | l       | underst | ensive  |
|         |         | literat |         | comment | anding. | knowled |
|         |         | ure.    |         | .       |         | ge      |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Content | 0-20    | No      | Little  | Evidenc | Good    | Excelle |
| s       |         | evidenc | evidenc | e       | knowled | nt      |
| and     |         | e       | e       | of      | geable  | underst |
| Knowled |         | of      | of      | underst | account | anding  |
| ge      |         | underst | underst | anding  | of the  | and     |
|         |         | anding  | anding  | with    | project | insight |
|         |         | of the  | of the  | clear   | as      | .       |
|         |         | project | project | explana | titled. | Concept |
|         |         | area.   | area.   | tions.  | Ample   | ual     |
|         |         | Confuse | Concept |         | coverag | framewo |
|         |         | d       | ual     | Adequat | e       | rk      |
|         |         | concept | framewo | e       | of the  | underpi |
|         |         | ual     | rk      | coverag | subject | ns      |
|         |         | thinkin | incompl | e.      | matter  | study.  |
|         |         | g.      | ete.    | Concept | in      | Expert  |
|         |         |         | Inappro | ual     | suffici | account |
|         |         | Poor    | priate  | framewo | ent     | of      |
|         |         | descrip | or      | rk      | technic | topic.  |
|         |         | tion    | poorly  | well    | al      |         |
|         |         | of the  | describ | develop | detail. | Well    |
|         |         | Softwar | ed      | ed.     |         | thought |
|         |         | e       | Softwar |         | Clear   | through |
|         |         | Enginee | e       | Nice    | explana | Softwar |
|         |         | ring    | Enginee | clear   | tion    | e       |
|         |         | process | ring    | descrip | of      | Enginee |
|         |         |         | process | tion    | Softwar | ring    |
|         |         |         | es      | of the  | e       | content |
|         |         |         |         | Softwar | Enginee | .       |
|         |         |         |         | e       | ring    |         |
|         |         |         |         | Enginee | techniq |         |
|         |         |         |         | ring    | ues     |         |
|         |         |         |         | methodo | with    |         |
|         |         |         |         | logy    | motivat |         |
|         |         |         |         | used.   | ion.    |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Technic | 0-10    | There   | Design  | Alterna | Clear   | Technic |
| al      |         | is no   | Decisio | tives   | present | al      |
| decisio |         | evidenc | ns      | conside | ation   | decisio |
| n       |         | e       | and     | red     | of      | ns      |
| making. |         | of      | choice  | for     | technic | have    |
|         |         | thought | of      | importa | al      | been    |
|         |         | behind  | algorit | nt      | decisio | made    |
|         |         | choices | hms     | technic | ns      | and     |
|         |         | made.   | justifi | al      | suggest | present |
|         |         |         | ed.     | decisio | ing     | ed      |
|         |         |         |         | ns      | that a  | in way  |
|         |         |         |         | such as | careful | that    |
|         |         |         |         | the use | approac | demonst |
|         |         |         |         | of      | h       | rates   |
|         |         |         |         | pattern | has     | excelle |
|         |         |         |         | s,      | been    | nt      |
|         |         |         |         | algorit | taken.  | underst |
|         |         |         |         | hms     |         | anding. |
|         |         |         |         | or      |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | archite |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | cture.  |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Critica | 0-10    | Weak    | Limited | Appropr | Clear   | High    |
| l       |         | and     | or      | iate    | present | level   |
| analysi |         | unaccep | logical | critica | ation   | critica |
| s       |         | table   | ly      | l       | of      | l       |
| and     |         | analysi | inconsi | analysi | finding | analysi |
| discuss |         | s;      | stent   | s       | s.      | s       |
| ion     |         | Inadequ | analysi | but     | Compete | of the  |
|         |         | ate     | s.      | limited | nt      | process |
|         |         | use of  | Superfi | .       | analysi | and any |
|         |         | evidenc | cial    |         | s.      | deliver |
|         |         | e       | critica | Clear   | Evidenc | ables.  |
|         |         | for     | l       | present | e       |         |
|         |         | discuss | evaluat | ation   | of      | Clear   |
|         |         | ion;    | ion     | of      | ability | underst |
|         |         | No      | of      | finding | to      | anding  |
|         |         | critica | results | s.      | evaluat | of the  |
|         |         | l       | or      | Good    | e       | quality |
|         |         | evaluat | value   | analysi | results | of the  |
|         |         | ion     | of      | s       | .       | work.   |
|         |         | of      | evidenc | of the  |         |         |
|         |         | results | e.      | project | Conclus | Nice    |
|         |         |         |         | process | ions    | conclus |
|         |         |         |         | .       | justifi | ions.   |
|         |         |         |         |         | ed      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | appropr |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | iately. |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Structu | 0-20    | Unaccep | Poor    | General | Correct | Excelle |
| re      |         | table   | layout  | ly      | ,       | nt      |
| and     |         | layout  | in      | good    | clear   | layout. |
| present |         | in      | terms   | layout  | English | Conform |
| ation   |         | terms   | of      | and     | .       | s       |
|         |         | of      | structu | clear   | Clear   | to all  |
|         |         | structu | re      | literar | and     | technic |
|         |         | re      | and     | y       | compete | al      |
|         |         | and     | logical | style.  | nt      | specifi |
|         |         | logical | argumen |         | express | cations |
|         |         | argumen | t.      | Mainly  | ion.    | .       |
|         |         | t.      | Poor    | appropr |         |         |
|         |         | Inappro | literar | iate    | Consist | Lucid   |
|         |         | priate  | y       | present | ent     | style   |
|         |         | use of  | style   | ation.  | layout  | of      |
|         |         | English | and     | Relevan | of the  | express |
|         |         | .       | deficie | t       | project | ion     |
|         |         | Serious | ncies   | use of  | report. | in      |
|         |         | deficie | in      | chapter | Clear   | English |
|         |         | ncies   | present | and     | overall | .       |
|         |         | in      | ation.  | section | structu |         |
|         |         | present |         | structu | re.     | Appropr |
|         |         | ation.  |         | re.     |         | iate    |
|         |         |         |         |         | Good    | and     |
|         |         |         |         | Some    | use of  | innovat |
|         |         |         |         | appropr | figures | ive     |
|         |         |         |         | iate    | .       | present |
|         |         |         |         | figures |         | ation.  |
|         |         |         |         | or      |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | tables. |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Bibliog | 0-5     | No      | Bibliog | Clear   | Well    | Correct |
| raphy   |         | bibliog | raphy   | well    | formatt | referen |
| and     |         | raphy   | present | written | ed      | ce      |
| Citatio |         |         | but     | bibliog | bibliog | to      |
| ns      |         |         | poorly  | raphy.  | raphy.  | sources |
|         |         |         | formatt | Some    | Citatio | and     |
|         |         |         | ed      | citatio | ns      | inclusi |
|         |         |         | or      | ns.     | at      | on      |
|         |         |         | cited   |         | correct | of a    |
|         |         |         |         |         | points  | full    |
|         |         |         |         |         | in      | bibliog |
|         |         |         |         |         | text.   | raphy.  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Profess | 0-10    | No real | Profess | Profess | Clear   | Thought |
| ional   |         | attempt | ional   | ional   | discuss | ful     |
| Issues  |         | to      | issues  | issues  | ion     | discuss |
|         |         | describ | address | discuss | of      | ion     |
|         |         | e       | ed      | ed      | profess | of      |
|         |         | any     | but     | that    | ional   | profess |
|         |         | profess | poorly  | are     | issues. | ional   |
|         |         | ional   | thought | shown   | Well    | issues  |
|         |         | issues  | out and | to be   | written | and how |
|         |         |         | related | relevan | and     | they    |
|         |         |         | to the  | t       | related | have    |
|         |         |         | project | to the  | to      | affecte |
|         |         |         |         | project | project | d       |
|         |         |         |         |         | materia | the     |
|         |         |         |         |         | l.      | project |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | process |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | .       |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

### Final Project Submission: End Product (usually software): 30% 

Marks awarded by the project supervisor and second marker for the
*quality* of the end product and the candidate's total technical
achievement.

**In the unlikely event that the project does not involve the creation
of a significant piece of software then an appropriate scheme will be
used to allocate an end product grade to other forms of deliverable such
as hardware.**

If there is no evidence of frequent updates to your SVN or private
GitHub repository of program code then a mark of zero will be awarded
for your end product.

-   Does it work? Is it stable?

-   Is the software usable? Is the interface appropriate for the
    application (a compiler might require more technical skills to run
    than an e-commerce site)?

-   Does the code and system structure follow the design?

-   How complete is the functionality with respect to the requirements?

-   Is the coding clean and well documented?

-   Does the SVN or GitHub repository reflect the use of good software
    engineering principles including appropriate use of branches/tags?

-   Does the product require techniques, tools, theory or concepts which
    are clearly above second year level?

-   Does the product use complex new technologies/platforms or require
    the study of a significant body of literature from disparate sources
    to complete?

  -- ------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------
      Marks  Description                                                                                                                                                                        Percentage
             Code may not even be readable                                                                                                                                                       $<$ 40%
             Code meets a clean standard - possibly Checkstyle                                                                                                                                   40--69%
             Beautiful code, nicely commented, clearly structured                                                                                                                                70--100%
             Code may not even be broken up according to functionality                                                                                                                           $<$ 40%
             Clear evidence of a design process. UML and design patterns used.                                                                                                                   40--69%
             Design process shows refactoring. Evidence of careful use of appropriate data structures.                                                                                           70--100%
             Code may not even work as expected or not possible to see code running using supplied instructions.                                                                                 $<$ 40%
             Code has all functionality as specified in the original project specification                                                                                                       40--69%
             Functionality significantly exceeds original specification. Clear and effective instructions, both for usage and installation.                                                      70--100%
             User interface unclear missing, or inconsistent                                                                                                                                     $<$ 40%
             User interface effective and appropriate. Code works well in its designed environment (resizes or switches orientation or deals properly with life cycle)                           40--69%
             Clear evidence of user interface design and thought about the user experience. Some attention on accessibility, or other enhancements                                               70--100%
             Code has no documentation or overall structure is very weak                                                                                                                         $<$ 40%
             Code has good documentation and includes clear use of regression testing                                                                                                            40--69%
             Excellent SE. Clear evidence of all appropriate processes including the use of branches and merging in a revision control system and a good test strategy                           70--100%
             Project as delivered requires no final year expertise                                                                                                                               $<$ 40%
             Project requires techniques, tools, theory or concepts which are clearly above second year level                                                                                    40--69%
             Some tools, theory or techniques employed show evidence of mastery at a high level                                                                                                  70--100%
             Code or results are very simple or do not represent what would normally be expected for this project                                                                                $<$ 40%
             The project as delivered required learning of a significant amount of material, or the use of complex technologies                                                                  40--69%
             The project involved a deep understanding of several new areas of work and this is demonstrated in a successful implementation or clear and professional presentation of theory     70--100%
  -- ------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------

### Professionalism: 5%  {#sec:assess-supervisor}

Marks awarded by the supervisor for the ability of the student to plan
and organise their project as a professional. This score reflects the
students ability to recognise and follow appropriate professional
behaviour.

If there is no evidence of frequent, reflective updates to your work
diary then a mark of zero will be awarded for your professionalism.

You are evaluated on:

-   the ability to arrange and attend supervisory meetings;

-   the ability to alter their project plan and identify priorities as
    they arise;

-   the ability to keep an organised project diary;

-   the ability to maintain a consistently high level of effort
    throughout the project;

-   an assessment of whether the student can work independently or
    requires constant supervisory intervention;

-   communicate well, understanding relevant professional issues, and
    maintain a good professional working attitude towards the project

  -------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------
  Level          Description                                                                                                                                                                                     Value
  *Inadequate*   Student did not undertake any planning, and little to no effort was spent on the project.                                                                                                       Fewer than 25 marks
  *Poor*         The student showed little if any attempt at organisation. Despite prompting by supervisor the student's effort was poor.                                                                        26-39 marks
  *Basic*        The student showed some organisational skills, and the level of effort in the project was generally adequate. Marks in the lower range are awarded if the student required regular prompting.   40-59 marks
  *Good*         The project was well organised and a significant amount of effort was put into the project by the student at during the project.                                                                60-69 marks
  *Very Good*    The project was well organised. The behaviour of the student achieved a high standard of professionalism.                                                                                       70-85 marks
  *Excellent*    The project was very clearly organised, taking into account wider professional issues, and the student behaved throughout in a professional manner.                                             More than 85 marks
  -------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------

### Project Demonstration: 5%  {#sec:assess-demo}

Marks awarded by the second marker for the ability of the student to
defend the work.

The purpose of the project demonstration is to explore whether the
student can:

-   explain the aims and objectives clearly;

-   demonstrate the working code;

-   explain the background/relevance/importance of the project and set
    it in the wider context;

-   briefly explain the theory underpinning the individual parts of the
    project (for example how algorithms work or which architectural
    options existed including their benefits/ drawbacks);

-   communicate well;

-   support their work with a clear simple A3 poster.

  -------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------
  Level          Description                                                                                                                                                      Value
  *Inadequate*   Does not understand the aims of the project let alone anything done towards achieving them.                                                                      Fewer than 25 marks
  *Poor*         Does not understand basic theories relating to any part of the project and cannot defend any of it.                                                              26-39 marks
  *Basic*        Understood much of what they have done. The product works well enough. May be very hesitant on background theory.                                                40-59 marks
  *Good*         Could not necessarily defend all decisions and maybe struggled if the conversation went outside the scope of the project. Simple Poster on display.              60-69 marks
  *Very Good*    The student clearly understood and defended nearly all aspects of the project and its background. Clear evidence of potential.                                   70-85 marks
  *Excellent*    The student clearly knew more than experts in the department about (some aspects of) the project and its context. Project demonstration flawless. Good Poster.   More than 85 marks
  -------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------

[^1]: When we refer to your SVN repository we mean your individual
    repository provided by the Department on
    `https://svn.cs.rhul.ac.uk`. When we refer to your private GitHub
    repository we mean a private educational repository owned by the
    department, to which we will give you access, not your own open
    repository (contact Dave Cohen to obtain one).
